7. Time Management
How do you organize you time?
Do you make plans every day?
Would you say you manage your time well?
Are you ever late for anything?
Do you think young people organize their time in the same way?
What’s the biggest difficulty you have when managing time?
8. Litter/ Rubbish
Do you think it’s important to keep the city clean?
What do you do when you see rubbish on the street?
Can you suggest why some people throw their litter on the ground?
Do you think plastic bags are a serious environmental problem?
9. Children’s Ideas
When do you think children start to have their own ideas?
Should parents follow their children’s ideas or should they say “No” to them?
Can children say no?
10. Places to Play
Where did you play when you were a child?
Did you play at your friend’s home?
Did you prefer to play outside or inside when you were young?
Do you think it’s important for children to play outside?
11. Cities
Do you like the city you are living in now?
Which city have you been to recently?
Do you prefer the city or the countryside?
What kinds of city do you like?
Which city do you want to go to?
12. Pets
Have you ever had a pet?
Do many people in your country have a pet?
Is there any animal you would like to have as a pet?
What animal(s) would you not like to have as a pet?
13. The Sky
Do you often look at the sky?
Do you know much about the stars and planets?
Can you see the moon and stars at night where you live?
Is there a good place to look at the sky where you live?
Do you prefer to look at the sky in the daytime, or at night?
Do school students learn much about planets and the stars (at school) in your country?
14. Weather/ Season
Which season do you like best? /Do you have a favourite type of weather?
What’s the weather like in your city?
Are there four different seasons in your hometown?
Would you move to another city because of the weather?
Do you do different things in different weather (or different seasons)?
Would you prefer to live in a place that has the same weather all year, or a place that has four seasons?
Does the weather in your country change often?
Do you like it when it’s raining?
Do you feel the climate is changing?
Do you think the weather is more important to people who play sports?
15. Sleep
How many hours do you sleep every day (or, every night)?
Do you think it’s good to have a nap during the day?
Did you sleep more in the past than you do now?
Do you think old people need more sleep than young people?
Have your sleeping habits changed since you were younger?
Do you think it’s important to have enough sleep (each day/night)?
16. Films/ Movies
Do you like to watch movies? (Why?)
What types of films do you like to watch?
Do you often watch a movie (a film)?
Do you like going to the cinema?
Do you prefer to (or usually) watch a film alone or with others?
How often do you go to a cinema?
Has your taste in movies changed since you were younger?
Are any foreign movie stars famous in your country?
Do you have a favourite movie star?
Have you ever seen a movie star in real life?
Would you like to be a movie star?
17. Crowded places
Do you like crowded places?
How do you feel in crowded places?
What are the most crowded places in your hometown (or where you are living now)?
Do you prefer to go to crowded places or places that have few people?
When was the last time you were in a crowded place?
Would you say people with the same interests usually get along with each other when they are in a crowd?
18. Patience
Are you a patient person?
When are you impatient?
Do you think you are more patient now than when you were younger?
Do you think you will be more patient in the future?
Are you patient in your work or study?
Can you explain why some people are not very patient?
Do you think people should be patient?
How do you feel when other people are impatient?
Would you say young people are more patient than older people?
Can you give any examples of work that require patience?
19. Tea & Coffee
Do you prefer to drink tea, or coffee?
When you go out do you most often drink tea, or coffee?
When was the last time you drank some tea or coffee?
Which is more popular in your country, drinking tea or drinking coffee?
Do people in your country ever give tea as a gift?
When people in your country entertain guests do they usually drink tea, or coffee?
20. Public Holidays
Does your country have many public holidays?
Do you have a favourite holiday?
Do you think there should be more public holidays?
What public holidays do you have in your country?
Would you say most people in your country know why you have those holidays?
What do people in your country do during holidays?
Do you think these holidays are important?
21. Sharing
Do you like to share things with your friends?
When you were young, did your parents teach you to share with others?
Is there anything that you would not share with others?
How do you think parents could encourage their children to share?
Are you willing to share your favourite possessions?
Do you think there will be a car sharing in the future?
22. Letters & Emails
Do you use email?
How often do you use email (or, write emails)?
Do you prefer to use email or text messaging?
Do you think it’s important to reply to emails immediately (or, quickly) after you receive them?
Do you like to receive handwritten letters and cards?
Would you say your handwriting is easy for others to read?
Do you prefer to write on a computer or to write using a pen?
Do you think a person’s handwriting reflects their personality?
23. Drinking water
Do you like to drink water?
Do you prefer to drink bottled water or tap water?
Do you drink much water every day?
Do you prefer to drink hot water or cool (or cold) water?
How often do you have a drink of water?
Is bottled water very expensive in your country?
Would you say it’s important to drink water?
Have you ever had an experience of being thirsty, but not having any water to drink?
24. Visiting relatives
Do you often visit your relatives? (Why?)
What do you do when you visit them?
When was the last time you visited them? what did you do?
Do you prefer visiting your relatives, or your friends?
Do you take anything when you visit your relatives?
25. Study/Work
25.1. Study
What’s your major?
Do you like it?
How do you like your courses?
(if you do not have a major yet) Which major do you want to choose in college? Why?
Will you change it if you have the chance ?
Which major will you change it to?
Is it different from what you had in mind?
Why did you choose that major?
25.2. Work
Do you work or are you a student?
What work do you do?
What specific things do you do on your job?
Why did you choose that job?
What do you like most about your job?
Would you recommend that job to others?
What did you do on the first day of your job?
Do you think this job has a bright future?
What are the most interesting and the difficult part of your job?
26. Transport
What kind of transport do you most often use?
How do you usually go to school / work?
How long does it take to travel to school / work?
How did you go to school when you were a child?
Do you prefer to use public, or private transportation?
Do you think you’ll use public transport more in the future?
==> Model Answer
27. Your living area
Where are you living at the moment?
Do many people live in your neighbourhood?
Do you have many friends there?
How long have you been living there?
What changes would you like to see in this area?
Who do you live with?
What do you like about the area around where you live?
Are you planning to move to another area to live?
Do you know many people living nearby?
What changes have you seen in this area since you have been living there?
==> Model Answer
28. Borrowing and Lending
Do you like to lend things to others?
Have you ever lent a book to others?
Have you ever borrowed money from someone else?
Have you ever borrowed a book from others?
Would you lend money to someone else?
29. Maths
Do you like maths?
Do you think females are good at maths?
How often do you use a calculator?
Do you think maths is important?
Some people think that maths isn’t needed in our life. What do you think?
30. Street Markets
Do you like visiting street markets?
Are street markets very common in your country / where you live?
Would you be interested if you saw a street market in a foreign country?
Do people in your country prefer to shop at a street market, or in a shopping mall?
Are there many shopping malls in your living area?
==> Model Answer
31. Social Media
Do you use social media?
Do you like to use Facebook?
How did you first find out about social media websites?
Is social media very popular in your country?
Do you think social media will become more popular in the future?
In the future, do you think you will use social media more than you do now, or less?
IELTS Speaking Part 1 Topics (Jan – Apr 2019)
Study/Work	The living area	Sports
Dream	Drink Water	Transport
Science	Cities	Celebrity
Painting	Sleep	Tee & coffee
Home	Handwriting	Sunglasses
Email	Gift	Music
Cooking	Shoes	Teachers
Sharing	Patience	Public holidays
Weather/season	Films	Noise
Morning routine	Pollution	Sky
Work
What do you do?
Do you like your job?
What’s the most important part of your work?
What’s the most interesting part of your work?
Why did you choose to do that type of work?
What is your work environment like?
How much (how many hours) do you work every week?
Are you satisfied with the place where you work?
Where do you work?
Would you say that’s a good place to work?
Would you like to change the place where you work?
What work do you plan to do in the future?
Study
Do you like to study?
What’s your favourite subject?
How much study do you do every week?
What would you say is the most important part of your studies?
Where do you usually study?
Do you like your school / university?
What do you like most about your school / university?
Why did you choose to study at that school/university?
Would you like to change your school/university?
Your living area
Where are you living at the moment?
How long have you been living there?
Who do you live with?
Do you like it?
Are you planning to move to another area to live?
What do you like about the area around where you live?
Do many people live in your neighbourhood?
Do you know many people living nearby?
Do you have many friends there?
What changes have you seen in this area since you have been living there?
What changes would you like to see in this area?
Noise
   What natural sound(s) do you like (the most)? (Why?)
   What sounds do you dislike? (Why?)
   What sounds remind you of your childhood?
   What (kinds of) music do you like the most?
   Does your school have any quiet places for studying?
   What are some places where there is a lot of noise?
   Do you mind noises? (Do any noises bother you?)
   What type of noise do you come across in your daily life?
Science
   Do you like science?
   What science have you studied?
   How do you study science?
   What’s the most difficult part of studying science?
   How has the science that you have studied helped you?
Pollutions
   Is there anything being polluted in your hometown?
   What are the common types of pollutions in the countryside?
   What are the causes of those pollutions?
   Have you ever done anything to help the environment?
Dream
   1.  How long can you remember your dream when you wake up?
   2. Do you like hearing others dream?
   3. Do you think dream will affect life?
   4. Do you often have dream at night?
   5. Have you had a bad dream before?
   6. What was the strangest dream you have had?
   7. What do you usually dream about?
Alone
   When was the last time you were alone?
   What do you like to do when you are alone?
   Do you wish to have more time alone?
   Is it important to have some time alone?
Efficiency
   Do you prefer to study in the morning or in the evening?
   Why do some people find it difficult to focus in the morning?
   What do you do to improve your efficiency?
Street markets
   Do you currently live in a house or a flat/ apartment?
   Are street markets common in your country?
   What is usually sold there?
   Do you think people like street markets? Why?
Transports
Do you know how to drive?
Do you have a car?
Do you drive your car very often?
Do you think everyone should get a drivers’ licence?
Do you think driving skills are important?
How often do you hire a taxi?
When was the last time you travelled by taxi?
Sharing
Do you like to share things with your friends?
Do you have anything to share with others recently?
Did your parents teach you to share with others when you were a child?
How do you think parents could encourage their children to share?
What kinds of things do you like to share with others?
Are you willing to share your favourite possessions?
Is there anything that you would not share with others?
Do you think there will be a car sharing in the future?
Colors
 What colour do you like the most?
Do you usually wear clothes in your favourite colour?
What colour clothes did you wear when you were a child?
Did you have bright-coloured clothes when you were young?
Are there any colours you dislike?
Does the colour of things influence you when you are shopping?
Are there any colours that have a special meaning in your country?
Do you think different types of people like different colours?
Cooking / Food
Do you like cooking?
How often do you cook?
Do you usually eat at home or do you usually eat out?
Do you know how to cook?
Would you like to learn how to cook?
Can you explain why many people enjoy cooking?
Painting/Drawing
Are you interested in painting and drawing?
What do you like to draw?
Did you ever learn how to draw or paint ?
Do you like to have pictures in your home?
If someone wanted to draw a picture of you, would you agree?
Parks/ Gardens
Do you often go to a park or a public garden?
When was the last time you went to a park / public garden?
Can you suggest how parks in your city could be improved?
Do you prefer a park with open space or recreational facilities?
Photos
Do you like taking photos?
How often do you take a photo?
How do you keep your photos?
Do you prefer to take pictures by yourself, or to have others take them for you?
Do you like to take pictures of your hometown?
Shoes
How often do you buy shoes?
Do you ever to buy shoes online?
How many shoes do you have?
Do you prefer comfortable shoes or fashionable shoes?
Do you know anyone who likes to buy a lot of shoes?
Teachers
Do you have a favourite teacher?
What makes a good teacher?
Do you think teachers should be strict?
In what ways do you think teachers and parents are different when teaching young people?
Would you like to be a teacher?
Watches
Do you usually wear a watch?
What kind of watch do you wear?
Do most people in your country (still) wear a watch nowadays?
Weather/ Season
Which season do you like best? / Do you prefer a warm, or a cool climate?
Are there four different seasons in your hometown?
Do you do different things in different weather (or different seasons)?
Would you prefer to live in a place that has the same weather all year, or a place that has four seasons?
Does the weather change often where you live?
Do you like it when it’s raining?
Do you feel the climate is changing?
Do you think the weather is more important to people who play sports?
Sunglasses
Do you wear sunglasses?
Have you ever lost your sunglasses?
Have you ever bought expensive sunglasses?
Where can you buy sunglasses?
Do many people in your country wear sunglasses?
Would you buy sunglasses as a gift for someone?
Morning Routine
Do you like to get up early in the morning?
What do you usually do in the mornings?
Do you think breakfast is important?
Did you have the same morning routine in the past?
Do you have the same routine every day of the week?
Would you like to change your morning routine in the future?
Sports
Do you like sports?
Do you have a favourite athlete?
What are some popular sports in your country?
Do you prefer individual or team sports?
Is there any sport that you would like to try in the future?
Sleep
How many hours do you sleep every day (or, every night)?
Did you sleep more in the past than you do now?
Do you think it’s good to have a nap during the day?
Have your sleeping habits changed since you were younger?
Do you think old people need more sleep than young people?
Do you think it’s important to have enough sleep (each day/night)?
Pets/ Animals
Have you ever had a pet?
Do many people in your country have a pet?
Is there any animal you would like to have as a pet?
What animal would you not like to have as a pet?
The Sky
Do you often look at the sky?
Do you prefer to look at the sky in the daytime, or at night?
Can you see the moon and stars at night where you live?
Is there a good place to look at the sky where you live?
Do school students learn much about planets and the stars (at school) in your country?
Films/ Movies
Do you like to watch movies? (Why?)
How often do you go to a cinema?
What types of films do you like to watch?
Do you have a favourite movie star?
Are any foreign movie stars famous in your country?
Have you ever seen a movie star in real life?
Do you prefer to watch a film alone or with others?
Has your taste in movies changed since you were younger?
Would you like to be a movie star?
Crowded place
Do you like (to go to) crowded places?
Do you prefer to go to crowded places or places that have few people?
What are the most crowded places in your hometown (or where you are living now)?
When was the last time you were in a crowded place?
How do you feel when you are in a crowded place?
Would you say people with the same interests usually get along with each other when they are in a crowd?
Tea & Coffee
Do you prefer to drink tea, or coffee?
Which is more popular in your country, drinking tea or drinking coffee?
When was the last time you drank some tea or coffee?
When you go out do you most often drink tea, or coffee?
Do people in your country ever give tea as a gift?
Do people in your country usually offer tea, or coffee to guests who visit them at home?
Public holidays
Does your country have many public holidays?
What public holidays do you have in your country?
Why do you have those holidays?
Would you say most people in your country know why you have those holidays?
Do you have a favourite holiday?
What do you usually do during a holiday?
Do you think these holidays are important?
Do you think there should be more public holidays?
Letters and Emails
Do you use email?
How often do you write emails?
Do you think it’s important to reply to emails immediately after you receive them?
Do you prefer to use email or text messaging?
Do you like to receive handwritten letters and cards?
Do you prefer to write on a computer or to write using a pen?
Would you say your handwriting is easy for others to read?
Do you think a person’s handwriting reflects their personality?
Drinking Water
Do you like to drink water?
How often do you have a drink of water?
Do you prefer to drink bottled water or tap water?
Is bottled water very expensive in your country?
Would you say it’s important to drink water?
Bags
Do you like bags?
Do males and females generally use the same kinds of bags?
PART 1 TOPICS (SEPTEMBER TO DECEMBER 2018)
Study/ Work
Accommodation
Hometown
Morning
Season
Color
School
Parents
Sunglasses
Picture
Technique
Holiday
Shoes
Cooking
Daily routine
Being Bored
Films
Punctuality
19.  Rain
20. Travel
21. Sports/ Physical exercise
22. Music
23. Letters and Emails
24. Foreign food
25. Plants
26. Maps
27. Teachers
28. Family activities
29. Save money
30. Watch
31. City
32. Dream Job
33. Spare time/hobbies
34. Transportation
35. Park/Garden
You can download these topics with model answers (PDF file) here: Latest IELT Speaking Part 1 Topics with Sample
Study
What’s your major?
Do you like it?
How do you like your courses?
(if you do not have a major yet) Which major do you want to choose in college? Why?
Will you change it if you have the chance ?
Which major will you change it to?
Is it different from what you had in mind?
Why did you choose that major?
Work /Job
Do you work or are you a student?
What work do you do?
What specific things do you do on your job?
Why did you choose that job?
What do you like most about your job?
Would you recommend that job to others?
What did you do on the first day of your job?
Do you think this job has a bright future?
What are the most interesting and the difficult part of your job?
Rain
Does it always rain in your city?
In which season does it rain the most often?
What do you usually do on rainy days?
Have you ever forgotten to take the umbrella on a rainy day?
Holiday
What is your favourite type of holiday?
What do you do on holidays?
Do you like short holidays or long holidays?
Music
Do you often (like to) listen to music?
When do you listen to music?
How much time do you spend listening to music every day?
What kinds of music do you like to listen to?
What’s your favorite kind of music?
Have you ever been to a concert before?
Do you like to listen to live music?
When did you start listening to this type of music?
Where do you listen to it?
How do you feel when you listen to this music?
Do you like listening to songs?
Have you ever been to a musical performance?
Have you ever learned to play a musical instrument?
Is music an important subject at school in your country ?
Did you often listen to music when you were a child? (If yes give details.)
What kinds of music arc (most) popular in your country?
Season/Weather
What’s the best season of the whole year?
What do people normally in that season?
What’s the weather usually like in your country (or, your hometown)?
How is the weather here different to the weather in your home country?
Would you say the weather in your hometown is suitable for working (or studying)?
Would you like to move to a place with different weather?
What sort of weather do you like the most?
What season (or weather) do you think is most suitable for work and/or study?
Has the weather in your country changed much in the past few years?
Do you prefer hot or cold weather?
Do you (usually) pay attention to the weather forecasts?
Money Saving
Is money important to you?
How do you save money?
Did you save money when you were young?
Why do people save money?
Have you ever given money to the children?
Teacher
What kinds of teachers do you like best?
Who was your favorite teacher when you were young?
Would you want to be a teacher in the future?
Have you ever had bad teachers before?
Family
How often do you meet with your family?
How do you spend the time with your family?
Do you want to live with your family in the future?
Are you close to of your family members?
How has your family influenced you?
What activities did you do when you were young?
What is the difference in family activities when you were young and now?
What is the difference between family in ordinary times and on holidays?
Accommodation/House
Do you live in a house or flat?
Do you like it? Does your family like it?
How would you change your apartment or house?
How long have you lived there?
Do you live with your family?
Is the transport around your home convenient?
What’s your neighborhood like?
What’s your favorite room?
Is there anything you want to change about this room?
Do you want to move?
What kind of place did you live in when you were little?
What kind of apartments or houses do you want to live in the future?
Do you want to live on the countryside?
Do you spend more or less time with your family than before?
Transportation
What’s the most popular means of transportation in your hometown?
How often do you take buses?
Can you compare the advantages of planes and trains?
Is driving to work popular in your country?
Do you think people will drive more in the future?
Would you ride bikes to work in the future?
What will become the most popular means of transportation in your country?
Do you prefer public transportation or private transportation?
Shoes
Do you like shoes?
How often do you buy shoes?
Do you like to wear shoes that are comfortable or good looking?
What is your favorite type of shoes?
Why do some people have too many shoes?
Have you ever bought shoes online?
Are people willing to buy expensive shoes?
Watches
Do you usually wear watch?
What was the first watch you like?
Do you think time is important?
Where did you get your watch?
What kinds of watches do you like to wear?
Why do you think some people like to wear expensive watches?
Are you ever late for anything?
If you could go back in time, what would you do?
Mornings
Do you usually do the same things in the mornings?
Do you think breakfast is important?
Did you do the same morning routines in your early ages?
Do you want to change your daily routines in the future?
Drink water
How often do you drink water?
What kinds of water do you like to drink?
Do you drink bottled water or water from water machines?
Cooking
Have you ever cooked?
How often do you cook?
Do you like cooking?
How good are you at cooking?
What dish are you best at cooking?
What cooking experience have you had?
Does anyone in your family like to cook?
Who taught you how to cook?
When you were a child, did you ever help your parents to prepare a meal?
Do you want to learn how to cook?
Who usually do the cooking in your home? Who is the best cook you know?
Foreign food
Have you ever tried foreign food?
Do you like to try new food?
How often did you eat foreign food when you were young?
Do you like any food from countries near yours?
Do people in your country like foreign food?
Will people eat more or less foreign food?
Being bored
Do you ever get bored?
What kinds of things are boring to you?
What will do when you feel bored?
When you were young, what would you do if you felt bored?
What do you do when you get bored?
Colors
What is your favorite color?
What color would you like to paint your bedroom?
Are there any colors you dislike?
Is color very important to you when you are buying something?
Do you prefer light or dark color?
Sunglasses
Do people in your country wear sunglasses?
Do you like to wear sunglasses?
Do you often wear sunglasses?
Where do you buy sunglasses?
Park/Garden
Do you like going to parks or public gardens?/Do you often visit public parks?
When was the last time you went to a park?
What do you usually do there?
Are there many parks or public gardens in your hometown?
Would you like to see more parks and gardens in your hometown?
Did you go to parks when you were a child?
Do you prefer to relax with your friends in a park or an indoor place?
Do you think you will go to parks more often in the future?
Why are parks an important part of many towns and cities?
What do you think could be done to make parks better?
Painting/Art/Pictures
Do you like painting?
What kinds of things do you like to draw?
Did you enjoy doing art lessons when you were a child?
Do you ever draw or paint pictures now?
When was the last time you went to an art gallery or exhibition?
What kind of pictures do you like having in your home?
What benefits can you get from painting as a hobby?
Cities
Do you like the city you are living in now?
Which city have you been to recently?
Do you prefer the city or the countryside?
What kinds of city do you like?
Which city do you want to go to?
On time/ Punctuality
How to you check the time?
Is it important to be on time?
What do you do when you arrive early?
Has people’s the sense of time gotten weaker now?
Is it less or more important to be on time today than in the past?
Colors
What colors do you like?
What’s the most popular color in your country?
Do you like to wear dark or bright colors?
What’s the different between men and women’s preference on colors?
Do colors affect your mood?
Daily Routine
When do you usually get up and go to bed?
Are your weekdays and weekends different?
What is your favorite part of a day?
What is your worst part of a day?
When do you do most of your study?
Would you like to change your daily routine?
How much time do you think people should spend on working per week?
Films
Do you like watching films?
What type of film you like watching?
How often do you watch films?
Do you prefer watching films at home or at the cinema?
Would you like to be in a movie?
Do you prefer foreign films or films made in your country?
How often do you go to a cinema to watch a movie?
Do people in your country like to go to a cinema to watch a film?
What was the first film that you watched?
Do you like to watch movies alone or with your friends?
Emails & Letters
Do you think emails are useful?
Do you think it is a good thing that companies send out spam email for advertising purposes?
Do you think email can replace handwriting?
Do you often write something by hand?
Who do you usually write to and what do you write about?
What are the differences between handwriting and email?
What kind of letter is the hardest to write?
What kind of email do you receive and make you happy?
What do you usually use email for? Do you like using email or making a phone call?
Do you think email will still be popular in the future?
Hometown
Where’s your hometown?
Do you like it?
Is it a good place for children?
Good and bad points of it?
Are there any changes in your hometown in recent years?
Will you work in your hometown in the future?
Is transportation convenient in your hometown?
Will you find a boyfriend/girlfriend in your hometown?
Why do young people like to go to big cities?
What problems do big cities have besides bad traffic?
What do people take with them when they go out in big cities besides umbrellas?
What kind of customs do you have in your hometown?
Plants
Do you like plants?
What plants do you like?
Have you ever grown any plants?
Did you grow any plant when you were a child?
Do you think plant is a good gift? / Do people in your country send plants as gift?
Do you keep plants at home?
Do you know anything about growing a plant?